<!-- vim: set tw=80: -->

# Hi there ðŸ‘‹

My name is Fabio and welcome to my GitHub repository. I'm passionate about all
things related to programming languages, hardware & software, and distributed
systems. As a home lab enthusiast, I also enjoy running my own infrastructure.

Professionally I am a senior architect with focus on complex distributed systems
leveraging Kafka and a variety of different data stores like Redis, MySQL,
OpenSearch, and Databricks. I use this space as a conduit to express my
interests and creativity about embedded systems, hardware design, and low level
programming that I don't get to do on my day job.

## Noteworthy projects and repositories

### Autosys

Miscellaneous automation and IoT projects, mainly using Rust, that have a
component of embedded systems and custom PCB design. Nonetheless, it is a
distributed system using MQTT to wire up its various components. The motivation
behind it is to provide a level of automation to a commercial facility. Check
[Autosys](https://github.com/fabiojmendes/Autosys) for more details.

### Super Jeff

I like playing games and always wanted to write one myself. I tried a few times
over the years but would never get past the prototype stage. Finishing things is
an art. This time around I wanted it to be different. Also, that was during the
pandemic and I didn't have kids at the timeâ€¦ Even though it is a simple game, it
is a complete game with graphics, physics, audio, and an objective. My friends
had a blast playing and a real hard time defeating the boss, so that alone made
me feel accomplished. The game is also published to the
[arewegameyet](https://arewegameyet.rs/games/platformer/#super-jeff) website.

From the technical point of view it was also a fun challenge. Probably my first
Rust program past the hello world stage. I also wanted to go for a bare-bones
approach using only SDL to deal with multimedia stuff but without a full game
engine. Because of this, I also had to figure out a bit of math along the way.
Check [super-jeff](https://github.com/fabiojmendes/super-jeff) for more details.

### FabiOS

Pandemic was in full swing, so of course I had to implement my own operating
system. Never really got much further than going through the bootloader process
and printing some text on the screen. Still a very interesting deep dive on the
absolute **mess** that it is to initialize an x86 box. Check
[FabiOS](https://github.com/fabiojmendes/FabiOS) for more details.

### Raft Rust

A quick attempt at implementing the
[Raft Consensus Protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raft_(algorithm)) in
Rust. This project is mostly for self-study purposes and, you guessed it;
_pandemic_ time activities. It doesn't actually implement the storage part; the
focus was more on the leader election component. Check
[raft-rust](https://github.com/fabiojmendes/raft-rust) for more details.

### Honorable mentions

- [riscv-bare-metal](https://github.com/fabiojmendes/riscv-bare-metal) how to
  bootstrap a RISC-V microcontroller using rust and a bit of assembly.
- [cfg](https://github.com/fabiojmendes/cfg) my dot files repository.
- [nvim](https://github.com/fabiojmendes/nvim) my Neovim configuration based on
  LazyVim.
